README.md, before:

# TAKT

🇯🇵 [日本語ドキュメント](./docs/README.ja.md)

**T**ask **A**gent **K**oordination **T**ool - Multi-agent orchestration system for Claude Code and OpenAI Codex.

> **Note**: This project is developed at my own pace. See [Disclaimer](#disclaimer) for details.

TAKT is built with TAKT (dogfooding).

## Requirements

- [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) or Codex must be installed and configured

TAKT supports both Claude Code and Codex as providers; you can choose the provider during setup.

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g takt
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run a task (will prompt for workflow selection and optional worktree creation)
takt "Add a login feature"

# Add a task to the queue
takt /add-task "Fix the login bug"

# Run all pending tasks
takt /run-tasks

# Watch for tasks and auto-execute
takt /watch

# Review worktree results (merge or delete)
takt /review-tasks

# Switch workflow
takt /switch
```

## Commands

| Command | Alias | Description |
|---------|-------|-------------|
| `takt "task"` | | Execute task with current workflow (continues session) |
| `takt -r "task"` | | Execute task, resuming previous session |
| `takt /run-tasks` | `/run` | Run all pending tasks from `.takt/tasks/` |
| `takt /watch` | | Watch `.takt/tasks/` and auto-execute tasks (stays resident) |
| `takt /add-task` | `/add` | Add a new task interactively (YAML format, multiline supported) |
| `takt /review-tasks` | `/review` | Review worktree task results (try merge, merge & cleanup, or delete) |
| `takt /switch` | | Switch workflow interactively |
| `takt /clear` | | Clear agent conversation sessions |
| `takt /refresh-builtin` | | Update builtin agents/workflows to latest version |
| `takt /config` | | Display current configuration |
| `takt /help` | | Show help |

## Workflows

TAKT uses YAML-based workflow definitions. Place them in:
- `~/.takt/workflows/*.yaml`

### Example Workflow

```yaml
name: default
max_iterations: 10

steps:
  - name: plan
    agent: planner
    provider: claude         # Optional: claude or codex
    model: opus              # Claude: opus/sonnet/haiku, Codex: gpt-5.2-codex/gpt-5.1-codex
    instruction_template: |
      {task}
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: implement

  - name: implement
    agent: coder
    provider: codex
    model: gpt-5.2-codex     # Codex model example
    instruction_template: |
      {task}
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: review
      - condition: blocked
        next_step: ABORT

  - name: review
    agent: architect
    model: sonnet            # Model alias (no provider = uses global default)
    transitions:
      - condition: approved
        next_step: COMPLETE
      - condition: rejected
        next_step: implement
```

## Built-in Workflows

TAKT ships with several built-in workflows:

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `default` | Full development workflow: plan → implement → architect review → AI review → security review → supervisor approval. Includes fix loops for each review stage. |
| `simple` | Simplified version of default: plan → implement → architect review → AI review → supervisor. No intermediate fix steps. |
| `research` | Research workflow: planner → digger → supervisor. Autonomously researches topics without asking questions. |
| `expert-review` | Comprehensive review with domain experts: CQRS+ES, Frontend, AI, Security, QA reviews with fix loops. |
| `magi` | Deliberation system inspired by Evangelion. Three AI personas (MELCHIOR, BALTHASAR, CASPER) analyze and vote. |

Switch between workflows with `takt /switch`.

## Built-in Agents

- **coder** - Implements features and fixes bugs
- **architect** - Reviews code and provides feedback
- **supervisor** - Final verification and approval
- **planner** - Task analysis and implementation planning
- **ai-reviewer** - AI-generated code quality review
- **security** - Security vulnerability assessment

## Custom Agents

Define custom agents in `.takt/agents.yaml`:

```yaml
agents:
  - name: my-reviewer
    prompt_file: .takt/prompts/reviewer.md
    allowed_tools: [Read, Glob, Grep]
    provider: claude             # Optional: claude or codex
    model: opus                  # Claude: opus/sonnet/haiku or full name (claude-opus-4-5-20251101)
    status_patterns:
      approved: "\\[APPROVE\\]"
      rejected: "\\[REJECT\\]"

  - name: my-codex-agent
    prompt_file: .takt/prompts/analyzer.md
    provider: codex
    model: gpt-5.2-codex         # Codex: gpt-5.2-codex, gpt-5.1-codex, etc.
```

## Model Selection

### Claude Models

You can specify models using either **aliases** or **full model names**:

**Aliases** (recommended for simplicity):
- `opus` - Claude Opus 4.5 (highest reasoning capability)
- `sonnet` - Claude Sonnet 4.5 (balanced, best for most tasks)
- `haiku` - Claude Haiku 4.5 (fast and efficient)
- `opusplan` - Opus for planning, Sonnet for execution
- `default` - Recommended model for your account type

**Full model names** (recommended for production):
- `claude-opus-4-5-20251101`
- `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929`
- `claude-haiku-4-5-20250101`

### Codex Models

Available Codex models:
- `gpt-5.2-codex` - Latest agentic coding model (default)
- `gpt-5.1-codex` - Previous generation
- `gpt-5.1-codex-max` - Optimized for long-running tasks
- `gpt-5.1-codex-mini` - Smaller, cost-effective version
- `codex-1` - Specialized model aligned with coding preferences

## Project Structure

```
~/.takt/
├── config.yaml          # Global config (provider, model, workflows, etc.)
├── workflows/           # Workflow definitions
└── agents/              # Agent prompt files

.takt/                   # Project-level config
├── agents.yaml          # Custom agent definitions
├── tasks/               # Pending task files (.yaml, .md)
├── completed/           # Completed tasks with reports
├── worktrees/           # Git worktrees for isolated task execution
├── reports/             # Execution reports (auto-generated)
└── logs/                # Session logs (incremental)
    ├── latest.json      # Pointer to current/latest session
    ├── previous.json    # Pointer to previous session
    └── {sessionId}.json # Full session log per workflow run
```

### Global Configuration

Configure default provider and model in `~/.takt/config.yaml`:

```yaml
# ~/.takt/config.yaml
language: en
default_workflow: default
log_level: info
provider: claude         # Default provider: claude or codex
model: sonnet            # Default model (optional)
trusted_directories:
  - /path/to/trusted/dir
```

**Model Resolution Priority:**
1. Workflow step `model` (highest priority)
2. Custom agent `model`
3. Global config `model`
4. Provider default (Claude: sonnet, Codex: gpt-5.2-codex)


## Practical Usage Guide

### Resuming Sessions with `-r`

When TAKT prompts for additional input during execution (e.g., "Please provide more details"), use the `-r` flag to continue the conversation:

```bash
# First run - agent might ask for clarification
takt "Fix the login bug"

# Resume the same session to provide the requested information
takt -r "The bug occurs when the password contains special characters"
```

The `-r` flag preserves the agent's conversation history, allowing for natural back-and-forth interaction.

### Interactive Workflow

When running `takt "task"`, you are prompted to:

1. **Select a workflow** - Choose from available workflows (arrow keys, ESC to cancel)
2. **Create a worktree** (optional) - Optionally run the task in an isolated git worktree

This interactive flow ensures each task runs with the right workflow and isolation level.

### Adding Custom Workflows

Create your own workflow by adding YAML files to `~/.takt/workflows/`:

```yaml
# ~/.takt/workflows/my-workflow.yaml
name: my-workflow
description: My custom workflow

max_iterations: 5

steps:
  - name: analyze
    agent: ~/.takt/agents/my-agents/analyzer.md
    instruction_template: |
      Analyze this request: {task}
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: implement

  - name: implement
    agent: ~/.takt/agents/default/coder.md
    instruction_template: |
      Implement based on the analysis: {previous_response}
    pass_previous_response: true
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: COMPLETE
```

### Specifying Agents by Path

Agents are specified using file paths in workflow definitions:

```yaml
# Use built-in agents
agent: ~/.takt/agents/default/coder.md
agent: ~/.takt/agents/magi/melchior.md

# Use project-local agents
agent: ./.takt/agents/my-reviewer.md

# Use absolute paths
agent: /path/to/custom/agent.md
```

Create custom agent prompts as Markdown files:

```markdown
# ~/.takt/agents/my-agents/reviewer.md

You are a code reviewer focused on security.

## Your Role
- Check for security vulnerabilities
- Verify input validation
- Review authentication logic

## Output Format
- [REVIEWER:APPROVE] if code is secure
- [REVIEWER:REJECT] if issues found (list them)
```

### Task Management

TAKT supports batch task processing through task files in `.takt/tasks/`. Both `.yaml`/`.yml` and `.md` file formats are supported.

#### Adding Tasks with `/add-task`

```bash
# Quick add (no worktree)
takt /add-task "Add authentication feature"

# Interactive mode (prompts for worktree, branch, workflow options)
takt /add-task
```

#### Task File Formats

**YAML format** (recommended, supports worktree/branch/workflow options):

```yaml
# .takt/tasks/add-auth.yaml
task: "Add authentication feature"
worktree: true                  # Run in isolated git worktree
branch: "feat/add-auth"         # Branch name (auto-generated if omitted)
workflow: "default"             # Workflow override (uses current if omitted)
```

**Markdown format** (simple, backward compatible):

```markdown
# .takt/tasks/add-login-feature.md

Add a login feature to the application.

Requirements:
- Username and password fields
- Form validation
- Error handling for failed attempts
```

#### Git Worktree Isolation

YAML task files can specify `worktree` to run each task in an isolated git worktree, keeping the main working directory clean:

- `worktree: true` - Auto-create at `.takt/worktrees/{timestamp}-{task-slug}/`
- `worktree: "/path/to/dir"` - Create at specified path
- `branch: "feat/xxx"` - Use specified branch (auto-generated as `takt/{timestamp}-{slug}` if omitted)
- Omit `worktree` - Run in current working directory (default)

When a worktree task completes successfully, TAKT automatically commits all changes (`auto-commit`). Use `takt /review-tasks` to review, try-merge, or delete completed worktree branches.

#### Running Tasks with `/run-tasks`

```bash
takt /run-tasks
```

- Tasks are executed in alphabetical order (use prefixes like `001-`, `002-` for ordering)
- Completed tasks are moved to `.takt/completed/` with execution reports
- New tasks added during execution will be picked up dynamically

#### Watching Tasks with `/watch`

```bash
takt /watch
```

Watch mode polls `.takt/tasks/` for new task files and auto-executes them as they appear. The process stays resident until `Ctrl+C`. This is useful for:
- CI/CD pipelines that generate task files
- Automated workflows where tasks are added by external processes
- Long-running development sessions where tasks are queued over time

#### Reviewing Worktree Results with `/review-tasks`

```bash
takt /review-tasks
```

Lists all `takt/`-prefixed worktree branches with file change counts. For each branch you can:
- **Try merge** - Attempt merge into main (dry-run check, then actual merge)
- **Merge & cleanup** - Merge and remove the worktree
- **Delete** - Remove the worktree and branch without merging

### Session Logs

TAKT writes session logs incrementally to `.takt/logs/`. Logs are saved at workflow start, after each step, and at workflow end — so even if the process crashes mid-execution, partial logs are preserved.

- `.takt/logs/latest.json` - Pointer to the current (or most recent) session
- `.takt/logs/previous.json` - Pointer to the previous session
- `.takt/logs/{sessionId}.json` - Full session log with step history

Agents can read `previous.json` to pick up context from a prior run (e.g., when resuming with `takt "続けて"`).

### Workflow Variables

Available variables in `instruction_template`:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `{task}` | Original user request |
| `{iteration}` | Workflow-wide turn count (total steps executed) |
| `{max_iterations}` | Maximum iterations allowed |
| `{step_iteration}` | Per-step iteration count (how many times THIS step has run) |
| `{previous_response}` | Previous step's output (requires `pass_previous_response: true`) |
| `{user_inputs}` | Additional user inputs during workflow |
| `{git_diff}` | Current git diff (uncommitted changes) |
| `{report_dir}` | Report directory name (e.g., `20250126-143052-task-summary`) |

### Designing Workflows

Each workflow step requires three key elements:

**1. Agent** - A Markdown file containing the system prompt:

```yaml
agent: ~/.takt/agents/default/coder.md    # Path to agent prompt file
agent_name: coder                          # Display name (optional)
```

**2. Status Rules** - Define how the agent signals completion. Agents output status markers like `[CODER:DONE]` or `[ARCHITECT:REJECT]` that TAKT detects to drive transitions:

```yaml
status_rules_prompt: |
  Your final output MUST include a status tag:
  - `[CODER:DONE]` if implementation is complete
  - `[CODER:BLOCKED]` if you cannot proceed
```

**3. Transitions** - Route to the next step based on status:

```yaml
transitions:
  - condition: done        # Maps to status tag DONE
    next_step: review      # Go to review step
  - condition: blocked     # Maps to status tag BLOCKED
    next_step: ABORT       # End workflow with failure
```

Available transition conditions: `done`, `blocked`, `approved`, `rejected`, `improve`, `answer`, `always`.
Special next_step values: `COMPLETE` (success), `ABORT` (failure).

**Step options:**

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `pass_previous_response` | `true` | Pass previous step's output to `{previous_response}` |
| `on_no_status` | - | Behavior when no status is detected: `complete`, `continue`, `stay` |
| `allowed_tools` | - | List of tools the agent can use (Read, Glob, Grep, Edit, Write, Bash, etc.) |
| `provider` | - | Override provider for this step (`claude` or `codex`) |
| `model` | - | Override model for this step |
| `permission_mode` | `default` | Permission mode: `default`, `acceptEdits`, or `bypassPermissions` |

## API Usage

```typescript
import { WorkflowEngine, loadWorkflow } from 'takt';  // npm install takt

const config = loadWorkflow('default');
if (!config) {
  throw new Error('Workflow not found');
}
const engine = new WorkflowEngine(config, process.cwd(), 'My task');

engine.on('step:complete', (step, response) => {
  console.log(`${step.name}: ${response.status}`);
});

await engine.run();
```

## Disclaimer

This project is a personal project developed at my own pace.

- **Response times**: I may not be able to respond to issues immediately
- **Development style**: This project is primarily developed using "vibe coding" (AI-assisted development) - **use at your own risk**
- **Pull requests**:
  - Small, focused PRs (bug fixes, typos, docs) are welcome
  - Large PRs, especially AI-generated bulk changes, are difficult to review

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

## Docker Support

Docker environment is provided for testing in other environments:

```bash
# Build Docker images
docker compose build

# Run tests in container
docker compose run --rm test

# Run lint in container
docker compose run --rm lint

# Build only (skip tests)
docker compose run --rm build
```

This ensures the project works correctly in a clean Node.js 20 environment.

## Documentation

- [Workflow Guide](./docs/workflows.md) - Create and customize workflows
- [Agent Guide](./docs/agents.md) - Configure custom agents
- [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md) - Version history
- [Security Policy](./SECURITY.md) - Vulnerability reporting
- [Blog: TAKT - AI Agent Orchestration](https://zenn.dev/nrs/articles/c6842288a526d7) - Design philosophy and practical usage guide (Japanese)

## License

MIT - See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Stop using git worktree due to Claude Code SDK working at repository root

README.md, after:

# TAKT

🇯🇵 [日本語ドキュメント](./docs/README.ja.md)

**T**ask **A**gent **K**oordination **T**ool - Multi-agent orchestration system for Claude Code and OpenAI Codex.

> **Note**: This project is developed at my own pace. See [Disclaimer](#disclaimer) for details.

TAKT is built with TAKT (dogfooding).

## Requirements

- [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) or Codex must be installed and configured

TAKT supports both Claude Code and Codex as providers; you can choose the provider during setup.

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g takt
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run a task (will prompt for workflow selection and optional isolated clone)
takt "Add a login feature"

# Add a task to the queue
takt /add-task "Fix the login bug"

# Run all pending tasks
takt /run-tasks

# Watch for tasks and auto-execute
takt /watch

# Review task branches (merge or delete)
takt /review-tasks

# Switch workflow
takt /switch
```

## Commands

| Command | Alias | Description |
|---------|-------|-------------|
| `takt "task"` | | Execute task with current workflow (continues session) |
| `takt -r "task"` | | Execute task, resuming previous session |
| `takt /run-tasks` | `/run` | Run all pending tasks from `.takt/tasks/` |
| `takt /watch` | | Watch `.takt/tasks/` and auto-execute tasks (stays resident) |
| `takt /add-task` | `/add` | Add a new task interactively (YAML format, multiline supported) |
| `takt /review-tasks` | `/review` | Review task branches (try merge, merge & cleanup, or delete) |
| `takt /switch` | | Switch workflow interactively |
| `takt /clear` | | Clear agent conversation sessions |
| `takt /refresh-builtin` | | Update builtin agents/workflows to latest version |
| `takt /config` | | Display current configuration |
| `takt /help` | | Show help |

## Workflows

TAKT uses YAML-based workflow definitions. Place them in:
- `~/.takt/workflows/*.yaml`

### Example Workflow

```yaml
name: default
max_iterations: 10

steps:
  - name: plan
    agent: planner
    provider: claude         # Optional: claude or codex
    model: opus              # Claude: opus/sonnet/haiku, Codex: gpt-5.2-codex/gpt-5.1-codex
    instruction_template: |
      {task}
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: implement

  - name: implement
    agent: coder
    provider: codex
    model: gpt-5.2-codex     # Codex model example
    instruction_template: |
      {task}
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: review
      - condition: blocked
        next_step: ABORT

  - name: review
    agent: architect
    model: sonnet            # Model alias (no provider = uses global default)
    transitions:
      - condition: approved
        next_step: COMPLETE
      - condition: rejected
        next_step: implement
```

## Built-in Workflows

TAKT ships with several built-in workflows:

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `default` | Full development workflow: plan → implement → architect review → AI review → security review → supervisor approval. Includes fix loops for each review stage. |
| `simple` | Simplified version of default: plan → implement → architect review → AI review → supervisor. No intermediate fix steps. |
| `research` | Research workflow: planner → digger → supervisor. Autonomously researches topics without asking questions. |
| `expert-review` | Comprehensive review with domain experts: CQRS+ES, Frontend, AI, Security, QA reviews with fix loops. |
| `magi` | Deliberation system inspired by Evangelion. Three AI personas (MELCHIOR, BALTHASAR, CASPER) analyze and vote. |

Switch between workflows with `takt /switch`.

## Built-in Agents

- **coder** - Implements features and fixes bugs
- **architect** - Reviews code and provides feedback
- **supervisor** - Final verification and approval
- **planner** - Task analysis and implementation planning
- **ai-reviewer** - AI-generated code quality review
- **security** - Security vulnerability assessment

## Custom Agents

Define custom agents in `.takt/agents.yaml`:

```yaml
agents:
  - name: my-reviewer
    prompt_file: .takt/prompts/reviewer.md
    allowed_tools: [Read, Glob, Grep]
    provider: claude             # Optional: claude or codex
    model: opus                  # Claude: opus/sonnet/haiku or full name (claude-opus-4-5-20251101)
    status_patterns:
      approved: "\\[APPROVE\\]"
      rejected: "\\[REJECT\\]"

  - name: my-codex-agent
    prompt_file: .takt/prompts/analyzer.md
    provider: codex
    model: gpt-5.2-codex         # Codex: gpt-5.2-codex, gpt-5.1-codex, etc.
```

## Model Selection

### Claude Models

You can specify models using either **aliases** or **full model names**:

**Aliases** (recommended for simplicity):
- `opus` - Claude Opus 4.5 (highest reasoning capability)
- `sonnet` - Claude Sonnet 4.5 (balanced, best for most tasks)
- `haiku` - Claude Haiku 4.5 (fast and efficient)
- `opusplan` - Opus for planning, Sonnet for execution
- `default` - Recommended model for your account type

**Full model names** (recommended for production):
- `claude-opus-4-5-20251101`
- `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929`
- `claude-haiku-4-5-20250101`

### Codex Models

Available Codex models:
- `gpt-5.2-codex` - Latest agentic coding model (default)
- `gpt-5.1-codex` - Previous generation
- `gpt-5.1-codex-max` - Optimized for long-running tasks
- `gpt-5.1-codex-mini` - Smaller, cost-effective version
- `codex-1` - Specialized model aligned with coding preferences

## Project Structure

```
~/.takt/
├── config.yaml          # Global config (provider, model, workflows, etc.)
├── workflows/           # Workflow definitions
└── agents/              # Agent prompt files

.takt/                   # Project-level config
├── agents.yaml          # Custom agent definitions
├── tasks/               # Pending task files (.yaml, .md)
├── completed/           # Completed tasks with reports
├── worktree-meta/       # Metadata for task branches
├── reports/             # Execution reports (auto-generated)
└── logs/                # Session logs (incremental)
    ├── latest.json      # Pointer to current/latest session
    ├── previous.json    # Pointer to previous session
    └── {sessionId}.json # Full session log per workflow run
```

### Global Configuration

Configure default provider and model in `~/.takt/config.yaml`:

```yaml
# ~/.takt/config.yaml
language: en
default_workflow: default
log_level: info
provider: claude         # Default provider: claude or codex
model: sonnet            # Default model (optional)
trusted_directories:
  - /path/to/trusted/dir
```

**Model Resolution Priority:**
1. Workflow step `model` (highest priority)
2. Custom agent `model`
3. Global config `model`
4. Provider default (Claude: sonnet, Codex: gpt-5.2-codex)


## Practical Usage Guide

### Resuming Sessions with `-r`

When TAKT prompts for additional input during execution (e.g., "Please provide more details"), use the `-r` flag to continue the conversation:

```bash
# First run - agent might ask for clarification
takt "Fix the login bug"

# Resume the same session to provide the requested information
takt -r "The bug occurs when the password contains special characters"
```

The `-r` flag preserves the agent's conversation history, allowing for natural back-and-forth interaction.

### Interactive Workflow

When running `takt "task"`, you are prompted to:

1. **Select a workflow** - Choose from available workflows (arrow keys, ESC to cancel)
2. **Create an isolated clone** (optional) - Optionally run the task in a `git clone --shared` for isolation

This interactive flow ensures each task runs with the right workflow and isolation level.

### Adding Custom Workflows

Create your own workflow by adding YAML files to `~/.takt/workflows/`:

```yaml
# ~/.takt/workflows/my-workflow.yaml
name: my-workflow
description: My custom workflow

max_iterations: 5

steps:
  - name: analyze
    agent: ~/.takt/agents/my-agents/analyzer.md
    instruction_template: |
      Analyze this request: {task}
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: implement

  - name: implement
    agent: ~/.takt/agents/default/coder.md
    instruction_template: |
      Implement based on the analysis: {previous_response}
    pass_previous_response: true
    transitions:
      - condition: done
        next_step: COMPLETE
```

### Specifying Agents by Path

Agents are specified using file paths in workflow definitions:

```yaml
# Use built-in agents
agent: ~/.takt/agents/default/coder.md
agent: ~/.takt/agents/magi/melchior.md

# Use project-local agents
agent: ./.takt/agents/my-reviewer.md

# Use absolute paths
agent: /path/to/custom/agent.md
```

Create custom agent prompts as Markdown files:

```markdown
# ~/.takt/agents/my-agents/reviewer.md

You are a code reviewer focused on security.

## Your Role
- Check for security vulnerabilities
- Verify input validation
- Review authentication logic

## Output Format
- [REVIEWER:APPROVE] if code is secure
- [REVIEWER:REJECT] if issues found (list them)
```

### Task Management

TAKT supports batch task processing through task files in `.takt/tasks/`. Both `.yaml`/`.yml` and `.md` file formats are supported.

#### Adding Tasks with `/add-task`

```bash
# Quick add (no isolation)
takt /add-task "Add authentication feature"

# Interactive mode (prompts for isolation, branch, workflow options)
takt /add-task
```

#### Task File Formats

**YAML format** (recommended, supports worktree/branch/workflow options):

```yaml
# .takt/tasks/add-auth.yaml
task: "Add authentication feature"
worktree: true                  # Run in isolated shared clone
branch: "feat/add-auth"         # Branch name (auto-generated if omitted)
workflow: "default"             # Workflow override (uses current if omitted)
```

**Markdown format** (simple, backward compatible):

```markdown
# .takt/tasks/add-login-feature.md

Add a login feature to the application.

Requirements:
- Username and password fields
- Form validation
- Error handling for failed attempts
```

#### Isolated Execution (Shared Clone)

YAML task files can specify `worktree` to run each task in an isolated `git clone --shared`, keeping the main working directory clean:

- `worktree: true` - Auto-create a shared clone in a sibling directory (or `worktree_dir` from config)
- `worktree: "/path/to/dir"` - Create at specified path
- `branch: "feat/xxx"` - Use specified branch (auto-generated as `takt/{timestamp}-{slug}` if omitted)
- Omit `worktree` - Run in current working directory (default)

> **Note**: The YAML field is named `worktree` for backward compatibility. Internally, `git clone --shared` is used instead of `git worktree` because git worktrees have a `.git` file with `gitdir:` that points back to the main repository, causing Claude Code to recognize the main repo as the project root. Shared clones have an independent `.git` directory that avoids this issue.

Clones are ephemeral. When a task completes successfully, TAKT automatically commits all changes and pushes the branch to the main repository, then deletes the clone. Use `takt /review-tasks` to review, try-merge, or delete task branches.

#### Running Tasks with `/run-tasks`

```bash
takt /run-tasks
```

- Tasks are executed in alphabetical order (use prefixes like `001-`, `002-` for ordering)
- Completed tasks are moved to `.takt/completed/` with execution reports
- New tasks added during execution will be picked up dynamically

#### Watching Tasks with `/watch`

```bash
takt /watch
```

Watch mode polls `.takt/tasks/` for new task files and auto-executes them as they appear. The process stays resident until `Ctrl+C`. This is useful for:
- CI/CD pipelines that generate task files
- Automated workflows where tasks are added by external processes
- Long-running development sessions where tasks are queued over time

#### Reviewing Task Branches with `/review-tasks`

```bash
takt /review-tasks
```

Lists all `takt/`-prefixed branches with file change counts. For each branch you can:
- **Try merge** - Squash merge into main (stage changes without committing)
- **Instruct** - Give additional instructions via a temporary clone
- **Merge & cleanup** - Merge and delete the branch
- **Delete** - Delete the branch without merging

### Session Logs

TAKT writes session logs incrementally to `.takt/logs/`. Logs are saved at workflow start, after each step, and at workflow end — so even if the process crashes mid-execution, partial logs are preserved.

- `.takt/logs/latest.json` - Pointer to the current (or most recent) session
- `.takt/logs/previous.json` - Pointer to the previous session
- `.takt/logs/{sessionId}.json` - Full session log with step history

Agents can read `previous.json` to pick up context from a prior run (e.g., when resuming with `takt "続けて"`).

### Workflow Variables

Available variables in `instruction_template`:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `{task}` | Original user request |
| `{iteration}` | Workflow-wide turn count (total steps executed) |
| `{max_iterations}` | Maximum iterations allowed |
| `{step_iteration}` | Per-step iteration count (how many times THIS step has run) |
| `{previous_response}` | Previous step's output (requires `pass_previous_response: true`) |
| `{user_inputs}` | Additional user inputs during workflow |
| `{git_diff}` | Current git diff (uncommitted changes) |
| `{report_dir}` | Report directory name (e.g., `20250126-143052-task-summary`) |

### Designing Workflows

Each workflow step requires three key elements:

**1. Agent** - A Markdown file containing the system prompt:

```yaml
agent: ~/.takt/agents/default/coder.md    # Path to agent prompt file
agent_name: coder                          # Display name (optional)
```

**2. Status Rules** - Define how the agent signals completion. Agents output status markers like `[CODER:DONE]` or `[ARCHITECT:REJECT]` that TAKT detects to drive transitions:

```yaml
status_rules_prompt: |
  Your final output MUST include a status tag:
  - `[CODER:DONE]` if implementation is complete
  - `[CODER:BLOCKED]` if you cannot proceed
```

**3. Transitions** - Route to the next step based on status:

```yaml
transitions:
  - condition: done        # Maps to status tag DONE
    next_step: review      # Go to review step
  - condition: blocked     # Maps to status tag BLOCKED
    next_step: ABORT       # End workflow with failure
```

Available transition conditions: `done`, `blocked`, `approved`, `rejected`, `improve`, `answer`, `always`.
Special next_step values: `COMPLETE` (success), `ABORT` (failure).

**Step options:**

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `pass_previous_response` | `true` | Pass previous step's output to `{previous_response}` |
| `on_no_status` | - | Behavior when no status is detected: `complete`, `continue`, `stay` |
| `allowed_tools` | - | List of tools the agent can use (Read, Glob, Grep, Edit, Write, Bash, etc.) |
| `provider` | - | Override provider for this step (`claude` or `codex`) |
| `model` | - | Override model for this step |
| `permission_mode` | `default` | Permission mode: `default`, `acceptEdits`, or `bypassPermissions` |

## API Usage

```typescript
import { WorkflowEngine, loadWorkflow } from 'takt';  // npm install takt

const config = loadWorkflow('default');
if (!config) {
  throw new Error('Workflow not found');
}
const engine = new WorkflowEngine(config, process.cwd(), 'My task');

engine.on('step:complete', (step, response) => {
  console.log(`${step.name}: ${response.status}`);
});

await engine.run();
```

## Disclaimer

This project is a personal project developed at my own pace.

- **Response times**: I may not be able to respond to issues immediately
- **Development style**: This project is primarily developed using "vibe coding" (AI-assisted development) - **use at your own risk**
- **Pull requests**:
  - Small, focused PRs (bug fixes, typos, docs) are welcome
  - Large PRs, especially AI-generated bulk changes, are difficult to review

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

## Docker Support

Docker environment is provided for testing in other environments:

```bash
# Build Docker images
docker compose build

# Run tests in container
docker compose run --rm test

# Run lint in container
docker compose run --rm lint

# Build only (skip tests)
docker compose run --rm build
```

This ensures the project works correctly in a clean Node.js 20 environment.

## Documentation

- [Workflow Guide](./docs/workflows.md) - Create and customize workflows
- [Agent Guide](./docs/agents.md) - Configure custom agents
- [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md) - Version history
- [Security Policy](./SECURITY.md) - Vulnerability reporting
- [Blog: TAKT - AI Agent Orchestration](https://zenn.dev/nrs/articles/c6842288a526d7) - Design philosophy and practical usage guide (Japanese)

## License

MIT - See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.
